---
layout: post
title: 2020 update and 2021
author: Joseph Abel
date: 2020-12-31
category: Blog
download: true
---
I have been away from this website for sometime working, coding some side projects up and going through graduate school. I feel like i'm overdue for a blog post here so let's begin. 

**Georgia Tech update:**
* I am still a graduate assistant at Georgia Tech for CS 6035
* I am going to hopefully graduate by Fall 2021
* In Fall 2019 I took Introduction to Information Security (CS 6035) which was primarly projects and dealt with GDB, exploiting buffer overflows, analyzing different types of malware, breaking RSA that was vulnerable to different attacks and Web development technologies which dealt with XSS, CSRF and SQLi attacks
* I also took Information Security Principles (PUBP 6725) which dealt with security policy and the laws which govern our cybersecurty infrastructure. This was a nice change of pace this course that dealt with debating different security laws, case studies, and different threats from a policy point of view which our nation faces.
* In the Spring of 2020 I took Secure Computer Systems (CS 6238) this course was essentially a systems course that covered topics such as Intel SGX, Access Control Models, Systems level programming, design principles for different systems, database models, covert channels and TCB concepts
* In the Summer of 2020 I took Network Security (CS 6262) this course was at this point the toughest course of the four this course covered a lot of material such as: DDoS attacks and mitigation techniques, Penetration Testing models, Web Sessions and HTTPS, DNS Security, Different Malware analysis techniques and Mobile Malware, VM Monitoring, Botnet Detection, Machine Learning for Security and Blockchain
* The projects were really great and covered a lot of learning which was great the first project was a big challenge it involved developing a framebuster on a webpage which would be put in a chrome plugin. THe second part to the project was a pretty advanced clickjacking which really helps give you a thorough understanding of XSS attacks and JavaScript, Project 2 was about Malware analysis and about creating Control Flow Graph's to be mapped to angr and radare2, The third project involved using SNORT and wireshark for capturing malicious packets, the fourth project learning about malware behavior and it’s characteristics vs a normal network characteristic and how to apply ML to detect when an abnormal behavior is seen this involved wireshark and python training of models. Then the final project involved shellshock vulnerabilities and other penetration testing activities using different kali linux tools
* Fast forward to Fall 2020 the semester just ended I was enrolled in two courses while TAing Applied Cryptography and Introduction to Cyber-Physical Systems Security (CS 6260 & 6263 respectively). The CS 6260 course was at this point the hardest course and has over taken network security for me it covered heavy duty math involving DSA, RSA, ElGamal, Diffie–Hellman key exchange, RSA-OAEP, Random Oracle Model, IND-CCA, IND-CCP, INT-CTXT, UF-CMA, SUF-CMA,HMAC, Blockciphers, Generators and much more this course really gave me a run for my money but I learned so much but do not be fooled this course is a lot to unpack and you will have to rewatch lectures over and over again for this course. Honestly though I wish this course had a second part to it the professor is so passionate abuot the content it makes you want to learn more.
* CS 6263 was an interesting course the lectures were straight forward as my 6th course in the program the new stuff obviously was me learning about how Cyber Physical Systems(CPS) need to be secured but I felt like all though the course content was good the projects were not always my favorite. The first two I felt like didn't cover security within CPS devices and more so just logic to understanding the devices; the final two covered using protocols within CPS devices such as modbus, DNP3 one involved analyzing packets using wireshark over a CPS network and the other was performing a buffer overflow on a modbus system which was a really great project since we got to perform a buffer overflow on a real protocol system.
* My upcoming course **CS 6265** this is going to be a tough course I hear a lot of students struggle at it essentially it is a semester wide capture the flag course which is heavily based on reverse engineering I'm hoping the other courses I have taken up to now help me in this course I'm prepared for more sleepless nights and figuring out this course. I will make sure to post about my CS 6265 journey here.

**Work**
* Working so far in the pandemic has been a little bit different but nothing that can't be handled having meetings with the professors virtually, developing new software and labs for them and the students to use has been pretty fun and not as hard to despite working from home. I have been able to setup a home workspace using a coffee table and folders and I have my important files which are needed for my job so everything else is organized virtually for my university. I am currently working with some the faculty on some interesting projects generally I'm not allowed to talk about them yet but I promise they are very cool. I'm always interested in people reading this if you have an idea for undergraduates should learn cybersecurity feel free to reach out and i'll see if i can include your idea in a lab or curriculum for the students also if you are looking to give a lecture or talk to them as well i can help with that feel free to reach out to me on the contact page. 

**Outside of Tech**
*I got engaged this year (yep during the pandemic you heard it correct folks) My fiancee and I took a road trip up to Boston, Marthas Vineyard and Bar Harbor. This trip was honestly amazing but next time I would be happy just going to Marthas Vineyard and Bar Harbor there are incredible sites there. But i digress my fiancee and I got engaged in Martha's Vineyard in edgartown by the lighthouse. It was beautiful had a photographer and surprised her the day of the engagement. I used David Welch Photography he was a professional and took great shots highly reccomend using him and his photography services if you are going out there and want photos or an engagmenet shoot. But really Marthas Vineyard was amazing we did a lot there went to beahces visited oak bluffs and did other touristy attractions which we could do and stayed within the limitations of the pandemic. After Boston and Marthas Vineyard we went to Bar Harbor Maine this was an amazing experience honestly I could have spent a month there I love it so much up there I want to buy a potential future summer house there right by Acadia National Park.
There are so many places to explore the sunrise and sunset there Cadillac Mountain being one of my favorites but also I was a big fan of the Bass Harbor Head Lighthouse (just wear sneakers if you go over there you will have to climb rocks and please follow the path to the rocks we saw a woman get stuck in between a fence trying to take a shortcut just follow the path and yes the woman eventually got out). My favorite spot was Jordan Pond I could hike around jordan pond and bubble rock all day it is just absolutely breathtaking and the walk is relaxing also around there you will not regret it I promise. If you have any more questions about Acadia or Marthas Vineyard feel free to message me and I will try to respond.

As I close this part of my blog post Happy New Years eve and happy new years if you're reading this please stay healthy and I hope to see you in the new current viewer.

-Joe
